Add intro for "Distributed SQL over TiKV" (#23)
tikv/deep-dive-tikv: src/distributed-sql/introduction.md

# Distributed SQL over TiKV

> TiKV is served as the storage layer for [TiDB], a distributed HTAP SQL database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TiKV serves as the storage layer for [TiDB], a distributed HTAP SQL database.
```

> So far, we have only explained how a distributed and transactional Key-Value

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So far, we have only explained how a distributed transactional Key-Value
```

database is implemented. However this is still far from serving a SQL database.
We will explore and cover the following things in this chapter:

- Storing

  In this section we will see how TiDB relational structure (i.e. SQL table
  records and indexes) are encoded into the Key-Value form in latest version.
  We will also explore a new Key-Value format that is going to be implemented

>   recently and some outlook for some even better Key-Value formats in future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  soon and some insights on even better Key-Value formats in future.
```

- Distributed SQL (DistSQL)

>   Storing data distributedly in TiKV only utilizes distributed IO resources,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Storing data in a distributed manner using TiKV only utilizes distributed I/O resources,
```

  while the TiDB node that receives SQL query is still in charge of processing

>   all rows. What if we step further, delegating some processing tasks into TiKV

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  all rows. We can go a step further by delegating some processing tasks into TiKV
```

>   nodes? In this way, we can utilize distributed CPU resources! In this section,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  nodes. This way, we can utilize distributed CPU resources! In this section,
```

  we will take a look at these supported physical plan executors so far in TiKV
  and see how they enable TiDB executing SQL queries in a distributed way.

- TiKV Query Execution Engine

>   When talking about executors we cannot ignore discussing about the execution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  When talking about executors we cannot ignore discussing the execution
```

  engine. Although executors running on TiKV are highly simplified and limited,
  we still need to carefully design the execution engine which is critical to
  the performance. This section will cover the traditional Volcano model
  execution engine used before TiKV 3.0, for example, how it works, pros and

>   cons and the architecture.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  cons, and the architecture.
```

# Distributed SQL over TiKV

> TiKV serves as the storage layer for [TiDB], a distributed HTAP SQL database.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
TiKV is the storage layer for [TiDB], a distributed HTAP SQL database.
```

So far, we have only explained how a distributed transactional Key-Value
database is implemented. However this is still far from serving a SQL database.
We will explore and cover the following things in this chapter:

> - Storing

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Storage
```

>   In this section we will see how TiDB relational structure (i.e. SQL table

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  In this section we will see how the TiDB relational structure (i.e. SQL table
```

>   records and indexes) are encoded into the Key-Value form in latest version.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  records and indexes) are encoded into the Key-Value form in the latest version.
```

  We will also explore a new Key-Value format that is going to be implemented
  soon and some insights on even better Key-Value formats in future.

- Distributed SQL (DistSQL)

  Storing data in a distributed manner using TiKV only utilizes distributed I/O
  resources, while the TiDB node that receives SQL query is still in charge of
  processing all rows. We can go a step further by delegating some processing
  tasks into TiKV nodes. This way, we can utilize distributed CPU resources! In
  this section, we will take a look at these supported physical plan executors
  so far in TiKV and see how they enable TiDB executing SQL queries in a
  distributed way.

- TiKV Query Execution Engine

  When talking about executors we cannot ignore discussing the execution engine.
  Although executors running on TiKV are highly simplified and limited, we still

>   need to carefully design the execution engine which is critical to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  need to carefully design the execution engine. It is critical to the
```

>   performance. This section will cover the traditional Volcano model execution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  performance of the system. This section will cover the traditional Volcano model execution
```

  engine used before TiKV 3.0, for example, how it works, pros and cons, and the
  architecture.

- Vectorization

  Vectorization is a technique that performs computing over a batch of values.

>   By introducing vectorization into the exeuction engine, we will achieve higher

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  By introducing vectorization into the execution engine, we will achieve higher
```
